candystorm/shitstorm
bandwaggon effect
Ansteckungstheorie: schwarmverhalten -> panik
Annäherungstheorie: suche personen mit aehnlichem verhalten
Online disinhibition effect
nymwars

.) paper
The positive and negative implications of anonymity in Internet social interactions: ‘‘On the Internet, Nobody Knows You’re a Dog’’

p.3041
anonymity provides three functions as related to pri-
vacy: recovery, catharsis, and autonomy

p. 3043
social loafing, diffusion of responsibility, and
bystander apathy 

p. 3045
Without these cues, individuals are unable to project stereotypes on others and thus, expectations for behavior
based on these stereotypes should diminish

equalization hypothesis: this prediction has not materialized
and status differentials are still very relevant in CMC and influence communication over
the Internet.


.) paper
The Impact of Anonymity in Online Communities

Conclusion

Through our qualitative analysis, we have many findings
that support the claim that real identity comments are of
higher quality.
Through relevance analysis, we found that 
users who reveal more of their identity write comments that
are more relevant to the focal news story (Table1).
Similarly, through analysis using the Linguistic Inquiry and
Word Count tool, we see that more identity revealed yields
less swearing, less anger, more affect words, more
positive emotion words and less negative emotion words in
comments (Table 4). Finally, within the Disqus dataset
specifically, we see that anonymous comments were “liked”
less than pseudonym comments. 

In our quantitative analysis, we cannot conclude that the
participation of users, from a strictly quantitative
perspective, differs significantly between the time before
and time after the switch from Disqus to Facebook
. In the Disqus dataset, there are on average more comments per
article, but the relative size of users to articles is smaller in
the Disqus dataset. In the Facebook dataset, users comment
on a larger number of different articles, while Disqus users
focus more intently on specific articles.
In favor of revealing identity, we found that longer thread lengths are
associated with less anonymous participation
(see Figures 1 and 2), a quantitative measure that favors disallowing
anonymity. Finally, also in favor of revealing identity, more
identity revealed yields longer duration of participation in
the community (Table 8)
. 

.) The psychology of online comments
http://www.newyorker.com/tech/elements/the-psychology-of-online-comments
